## Blocked Dot Product in Cuda
We want to assign each thread to compute a partial product of two indices, and somehow reduce
the partial products to get the final dot product. 

The simple plan is: use shared memory to store the partial products, and then use a reduction to sum them up.

1. Each thread (with index tid) computes the product of A[tid] and B[tid], and stores it in shared memory.
However, say the size of our vector is way larger than the number of threads we've launched. The solution
to this is to have each thread compute multiple products. Now, thread tid will compute the product of 
A[tid], B[tid], A[tid + blockDim.x], B[tid + blockDim.x], and so on, until we exceed the size of the vector. 
Essentially, each tid is responsible for any vector index with the same modulo as tid.

[0, 1, 2, 3 | 4, 5, 6, 7 | 8, 9, 10, 11 | 12, 13, 14, 15 ]
num blocks = 4
num threads per block = 4
Thread 0: indices 0, 4, 8, 12
Thread 1: indices 1, 5, 9, 13
Thread 2: indices 2, 6, 10, 14
Thread 3: indices 3, 7, 11, 15

Pretty much, each thread is responsible for the tid'th index of each block. 

2. Shared Memory 
In order for reduction to happen, each thread needs to be aware of the products computed 
by other threads. We can use shared memory for this. Each thread will write its partial 
product to a shared memory array, declared with the __shared__ keyword. This allows all 
threads in the block to access the partial products.

__shared__ float partialProducts[blockDim.x];

Shared memory is a shared space on each SM (streaming multiprocessor) that can be accessed by 
all threads in a block. Shared memory is much faster than global memory, so we want to use it 
for intermediate results. However, it is limited in size, so we need to ensure that our block 
size does not exceed the available shared memory.

3. Reduction 
Typically, we use a parallel reduction technique to sum up the partial products. This involves 
iteratively halving the number of active threads and summing pairs of elements in the shared 
memory array until only one thread remains, which will hold the final dot product for that block.

At first glance, it seems like the below approach is intuitive:
We combine neighboring threads to sum their products, and keep halving like discussed. This leads 
to a log number of steps. 

          56
       20    36
    6     14    22
 1     5     9     13
0 1   2 3   4 5   6  7   

However, this approach can lead to thread divergence, where some threads are active while others are idle.
Initially, threads 0, 2, 4, 6 are active, then threads 0, 4 are active, and finally thread 0 is active. 
This can lead to inefficient use of the GPU's resources.

We prefer if neighboring threads are active together, and the reason is because: GPUs execute warps, not individual
threads. If our threads are sparse, then we may have to execute multiple warps with very low occupancy, which 
can lead to underutilization of the GPU. 

This can be achieved by a different reduction pattern.

          56
       24    32
    10    14    18
 4     6     8     10
0 4   1 5   2 6   3  7

In this pattern, threads 0, 1, 2, 3 are active together, then threads 0, 1 are active together, and finally thread 0 is active.
It may be difficult to see, but the difference is just each thread is summing with a faraway 
thread, instead of a neighboring thread. This way, we can ensure that all threads in a warp are
active together, leading to better performance.

In this case, a 'stride' is used to determine which threads are active together. Initially, the 
stride is 1, meaning each thread sums with its neighbor. Then the stride doubles to 2, meaning 
each thread sums with the thread that is 2 away, and so on.

4. Final Result, modifying Global Memory
Once this reduction is achieved, we will have the final dot product for that block. If we have multiple blocks,
we can use atomic operations to sum the results from each block into a global variable, or we can launch 
a second kernel to perform the reduction on the block results.

Global memory is much slower than shared memory, so we want to minimize the number of accesses to global memory.

